Doc 2.0 (#538)
RedisJSON/RedisJSON: docs/indexing_JSON.md

# Indexing JSON documents

In addition to (JSON) documents store, it is also possible to index JSON documents, gaining full-text search capabilities and document retrieving based on their content. To do so, you must install both modules, RedisJSON and RediSearch.

## Prerequisites

What do you need to start indexing JSON documents?

- Redis 6.x or later
- RediJSON 2.0 or later
- RediSearch 2.2 or later

## How to index JSON documents

Let's start by creating an index.

We can now specify `ON JSON` to inform RediSearch that we want to index JSON documents.

Then, on the `SCHEMA` part, you can provide JSONPath expressions.
The result of each `JSON Path` expression is indexed and associated with a logical name (`attribute`).
Use the attribute name in the query part.

Here is the basic syntax for indexing a JSON document:

>     FT.CREATE {index_name} ON JSON SCHEMA {json_path} AS {attribute} {type}

Reviewer: Should we emphasize that it is currently **required** to define an alias, in order to use it as an attribute in `FT.SEARCH` and `FT.AGGREGATE`
(there is a limitation in the query parser that might fail with syntax error with complex JSONPath expressions)

   6) "850"
```

## Current indexing limitations

### It is not possible to index JSON objects and JSON arrays.

To be indexed, a JSONPath expression must return a single scalar value (string or number).
If the JSONPath expression returns an object or an array, it will be ignored.

Given the following document:

```JSON
{
  "name": "Headquarters",
  "address": [
    "Suite 250",
    "Mountain View"
  ],
  "cp": "CA 94040"
}
```

If we want to index the string values part of the array under the `address` key, we must create two fields:

```sql
FT.CREATE orgIdx ON JSON SCHEMA $.address[0] AS a1 TEXT $.address[1] AS a2 TEXT
OK
```

We can now index the document:

```sql
JSON.SET org:1 $ '{"name": "Headquarters","address": ["Suite 250","Mountain View"],"cp": "CA 94040"}'
OK
```

We can now search in the address:

```sql
FT.SEARCH orgIdx "suite 250"
1) (integer) 1
2) "org:1"
3) 1) "$"
   2) "{\"name\":\"Headquarters\",\"address\":[\"Suite 250\",\"Mountain View\"],\"cp\":\"CA 94040\"}"
```

### JSON strings and numbers as to be indexed as TEXT and NUMERIC

- JSON Strings can only be indexed as TEXT, TAG, and GEO (using the correct syntax).
- JSON numbers can only be indexes as NUMERIC.

> - Boolean and NULL values are ignored.

Reviewer: Not ignored I think.
Boolean should be indexed as TAG.

    FT.CREATE userIdx ON JSON SCHEMA $.user.name AS name TEXT $.user.tag AS country TAG

> Note: The attribute is optional, but it is mandatory as you can't use a JSON Path expression inside the query (FT.SEARCH).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: The attribute is optional in `FT.CREATE`, but it is required to use attributes in attribute modifiers in the query of `FT.SEARCH` and  `FT.AGGREGATE`, and avoid using JSON Path expressions, which are not fully supported by the query parser.
```
